Reproducible code for **Future ocean biomass losses may widen socioeconomic equity gaps** by Boyce et al. 2020 in Nature Communications
 
Note: the analyses in this study were undertaken on a very large data set (~88 GB) and were therefore performed on a supercomputing cluster with the required computing capacity and took several days to run to completion. As such, the code and data used to analyze the data could not be provided in its entirety. Instead, a reduced subset of the data and code were submitted to demonstrate how the analyses were undertaken. The code to analyze this reduced data is the same as that which was used for the full dataset.

The full set of code used to produce all figures and sensitivity analyses is exceedingly large (>100 pages). To increase clarity, we submitted example code and data to illustrate how the four main analysis routines were undertaken to produce the manuscript figures: (1) data import and pre-processing, (2) ensemble trend estimating using linear mixed models, inverse-variance weighted spatial generalized least squares linear regressions fitted to (3) global datasets. These analyses form the basis for our study and the results presented in figures 2, 3, and 4. The code and example data for these steps are submitted in 3 separate directories: 
1. “import_to_r”: contains example dataset from the DBEM MEM and the code that imports this data into r and formats if for analysis.
2. “ensemble_trends”: contains a reduced dataset with forecast time-series within 50 1x1 degree grid cells and the r code used to estimate ensemble time trends.
3. “global_regressions”: contains a reduced dataset of the average forecasted biomass trends and the human development index in each exclusive economic zone or marine ecoregion under RCP 2.6 and 8.5 and the r code used to estimate the relationship between them.

The analyses were undertaken using the publicly available statistical software R, version 3.6.0, and were run on a 64-bit Compute Canada computing cluster, on the ‘Cedar’ node, with 100 Gb of RAM (https://www.computecanada.ca/). Due to the reduced size of the reproducible data, the computer code provided here should run on a standard desktop or laptop computer with sufficient RAM; we tested the code running r version 3.5.1 on a 64-bit windows desktop computer (windows 10) with 4 Gb of RAM. Instructions and installation code for R can be downloaded here: https://www.r-project.org/ and the software should install in minutes. The reproducible examples can be run by copy-pasting it into r or by opening r and sourcing the scripts by ‘source(path to r code)’.

